
# What is selogger?

selogger is a toolkit for recording an execution trace of a Java program.


## Usage

You must have a target Java application and a test case to execute the program.


1. Execute selogger.weaver.TraceWeaver to insert logging code into the target program.
    * To execute TraceWeaver, please include selogger classes and all jar files in lib directory in -classpath.
    * TraceWeaver takes as input class file names, directory names and zip file names.  
    * If a directory name is specified, class files are listed up for weaving.  If you want to automatically list up JAR files in a directory, specify `-jardir` option.
    * If you want to weave jar files in a jar file recursively, specify -innerJAR option.
    * TraceWeaver outputs woven files to the current directory.  If you want to change a directory, please specify `-output=path/to/dir` option.
    * TraceWeaver weaves bytecode for JDK 1.7 and 1.8.  If your program is JDK 1.6 or earlier, please specify `-jdk16`.  Without the option, a woven program may cause a verify error.
    * TraceWeaver termintes if an error occurs during a weaving process.  If you want to ignore errors, specify `-ignoreError`.  The option skips weaving for class files that cause an error.  Some applications, e.g. DaCapo benchmark, include an invalid class file intentionally.  This option can ignore such a file.  The weaving result is recorded in a log file.
    * If you want to specify events to be recorded, please specify `-weave=` option.  `-weave=ALL` records all events.  The option accepts 6 sub-options listed by commas (`EXEC,CALL,ARRAY,FILED,MISC,LABEL`).  Executions, method calls, array read/write, field read/write, some instructions (e.g. monitor entry/exit and instanceof), and control-flow labels.  By default, selogger records all events except for labels.
    
2. Execute the woven target program with class files in selogger/bin directory.  Other jar files in lib directory is unnecessary.  You may specify the following options.
    * -Dselogger.dir=log-directory-name specifies a directory for an execution trace.  You should specify a disk that has enough space.
    * -Dselogger.threads=[0-8] specifies the number of background threads to write an execution trace into a disk.   Each thread requires about 400MB RAM for a buffer.  The default value is 0.  If you have enough CPU power and fast disks, you may specify e.g. 2 or 4, to speed up an execution.
    * -Dselogger.errorlog=filename specifies an error log file.  Since an execution trace may cause a disk full error, you may specify another directory from the trace directory.  If not specified, an error log is not output.
    * -Dselogger.output=profile option outputs a frequency table of events instead of writing an execution trace.   This option enables to estimate an execution trace size.

3. Analyze an execution trace.
    * selogger.reader.LogPrinter is a basic program that simply print out the contents of an execution trace.  The printer class takes `-dir=path/to/trace` option to specify an execution trace directory (that is specified as `-Dselogger.dir` directory).
    * Create your own analysis program with selogger.reader.LogDirectory and EventReader classes. 



## Features

* TraceWeaver supports bytecode weaving for jar files.
* Events recorded by this tool is listed in `events-en.html`.
* TraceWeaver supports JDK 1.6, 1.7, and 1.8.  1.8 is experimental implementation.



## Data files generated by TraceWeaver

  * classes.txt contains a list of woven class files.  Each line shows a sequential ID of a class, the jar/directory name of the class file, class file name, class name, weaving result, MD5 hash of the class binary. 
  * If a weaving process encounters a runtime error, messages are recorded in log.txt.
  * LogLevel.IgnoreArrayInitializer: path/to/aClass.class indicates a method in the class is too large to insert logging code for array initialization.
  * LogLevel.OnlyEntryExit: path/to/aClass.class indicates a method in the class is too large to insert logging code.  Only entry/exit events are recorded for the class.
  * Failed to weave ... message indicates TraceWeaver could not process a file.  For example, TraceWeaver shows this message for org/apache/derbyTesting/databaseclassloader/emc.class in the DaCapo benchmark suite, because the file is a broken class file. 


## Event Stream

* An execution trace of a single thread comprises a stream of events as follows.

        method ::= METHOD_ENTRY  FORMAL_PARAM*  instruction  (METHOD_NORMAL_EXIT|METHOD_EXCEPTIONAL_EXIT)
        instruction ::= METHOD_CALL  ACTUAL_PARAM*  method?  (RETURN_VALUE_AFTER_CALL|OBJECT_INITIALIZED|OBJECT_CREATION_COMPLETED)
                      | ARRAY_LOAD  ARRAY_LOAD_RESULT
                      | (GET_INSTANCE_FIELD|GET_STATIC_FIELD)  method?  EVENT_GET_FIELD_RESULT
                      | THROW
                      | ARRAY_STORE
                      | PUT_INSTANCE_FIELD
                      | PUT_INSTANCE_FIELD_BEFORE
                      | PUT_STATIC_FIELD
                      | NEW_ARRAY
                      | MULTI_NEW_ARRAY
                      | ARRAY_LENGTH ARRAY_LENGTH_RESULT
                      | INSTANCEOF


  * `method?` is inserted between events when JVM loads a class and executes its static initializer (`<clinit>`).
  * An exception is recorded as `EVENT_CATCH`.  If the previous event is one of `ARRAY_LOAD, GET_*_FIELD, CALL` events, the exception is likely caused by the operation.
    * If there are no catch block, `METHOD_EXCEPTIONAL_EXIT` is found in a trace.  
  * If labels are recorded in an execution trace (by specifying `-weave=ALL` option), label events are inserted between events.


## What is not recorded in an execution trace?

* Local variables are not recorded in a trace.  You may recover the state by replaying an execution of a method from parameters of a method, array access events, and field access events.
